---
layout: post
title: "Welcome"
date: 2018-04-07
---

With the appearance of Oxford Nanopore's handheld DNA sequencer, the MinION, hands-on DNA sequencing has come within reach of amateur and citizen scientists. However, some barriers remain to actually put this technology into the hands of the interested amateur. This project aims to spread hands-on experience with DNA sequencing and to remove some of these remaining barriers by

* Designing and building auxiliary open hardware lab equipment
* Gathering and publishing information in the public domain on the most cost-effective auxiliary reagents
* Creating a public domain "How to" guide for citizen scientists on DNA sequencing
* Jump-starting a decentralized, citizen-driven monitoring of Antibiotic Resistance markers in the general population

In short, the goal is to learn together how to sequence the DNA of the living world around us, and to learn how to interpret these sequences.

To accomplish all of this, we applied for a [Mozilla Science Foundation](https://science.mozilla.org/) Mini Grant, and [were among the lucky awardees](https://science.mozilla.org/blog/mingrants2ndcohort/)! Many thanks at this point for the generous support of the MSF folks and the [Alfred P. Sloan Foundation](https://sloan.org/).

This project will be centered around a series of workshops, which will take us on a journey into DNA sequencing:

1. Introduction to DNA sequencing and brainstorming project ideas
2. Lab equipment building - DIYing some pieces of auxiliary lab equipment
3. Hands-on sequencing
  1. Surveying markers for Antibiotic Resistance in oral samples from participants; 
  2. Carrying out one of the ideas generated in the brainstorming workshop
4. Bioinformatics DNA sequence analysis

I will write in more detail about the content of each of these workshops soon.

This entire project is meant to be participatory - it's about learning, building, and creating together and then documenting everything we've learned to share the sequencing love. All results, documentation, designs, code and everything else we can think of will be shared publicly and collected in this project's GitHub reposiroty.

If this sounds interesting to you, you are invited to get in touch and participate. Drop us a line at ditseq at sillosphere org!
